i'm in conversation with an author named
troy parfet
so troy has a new book and i'll be
honestly troy
i couldn't get the date of publication
for this book is this book only a few
months old or is it a few years old you
seem to have a brand new book but i
don't know quite when it came out
dealing with the
uh intellectual oddities of jordan
peterson we'll say
uh to be put when did the book come out
right
uh the book came out on december 21st
but if you buy the book i dated it ahead
a few days so it says publication
copyright 2021 which is a kind of uh
trade practice so that's interesting and
the book is
referred to as volume one so i presume
having seen your youtube channel i take
you of a volume two that's going to deal
with
jordan peterson's more recent work an
assessment of i mean
correct me if i'm wrong but i assume
you're now going to go after
um peterson's uh beyond order
yes um
yeah that's something like that but the
the
um the framework and most of the content
for volume two was already written
before beyond order came out
so um i'll probably just be dealing with
beyond order in
one section called beyond order okay
i'm surprised just because on your
youtube channel it did seem to me that
you had
done an in-depth reading of beyond order
within days of that book being published
so you had quick turnaround on applying
your analysis of peterson's work
to his to his new book when he came out
just a few months ago yeah yeah
and incredibly i knew that i'd find um
plagiarism in the book and i knew who
from and sure enough
what a shock uh you know so the the
pattern
continues right in fact and in fact it's
recycled plagiarism in many
instances so he um so well let's
introduce the audience to this one one
step at a time i'm going to start i'm
going to start the shower into the pool
now i just say
to to describe myself as a jordan
peterson skeptic would be an
understatement
but that skepticism can lead off in
several different possible directions
uh one view of dr peter peterson would
be that he is a
totally normal somewhat stupid
uh young canadian man who grew up
reading books such as aleister crowley
and especially the necronomicon
written by simon books that were hit
books popular books
in the decade of the 1980s and and the
late 1970s that he was a young man who
got interested in the philosophy of carl
jung
and what could be frankly called a pulp
fiction occultism yes because a book
like the necronomicon that was a
mainstream mass-market
trade paperback now you know so to say
this
you have gone through the corpus the
small corpus of of dr pearson's
published work and the much
larger corpus of his youtube videos uh
you had a level of self-discipline i
have never had to go through hours and
hours of this guy's aimless
videos and i think you've picked out
quite correctly you know this this
series of influences
what can you tell me i mean okay why
don't i put this in a more
uh autobiographical frame did you
ever read the necronomicon or did you
have to read this kind of material
because of doctrine
were you encountering this stuff for the
first time because of dr pierson
it's funny that you should ask when i
was 14
i went through you know when you're a
kid you try on different phases you know
and i went to this phase for i think it
was about half a year where i was
listening to heavy metal music
where i found a kind of funny cap like
one of the guys in ac dc and i was
playing um dungeons and dragons and i
bought the necronomicon
at the cole's bookstore and hid it from
my parents you know so they wouldn't see
it
wow so this is this is a classic example
of dungeons and dragons
leading to satanism so this is what your
church pastor warned you about go on
and uh anyway but i i read like a couple
of chapters
i didn't get it i didn't i didn't like
it
i changed i i stopped playing dungeons
and dragons like
i i hid the book or threw it away i
uh whatever it was under the next phase
i think it was the beatles next and i
was like
kind of where i was wearing tie dyes and
things like this so uh
you know it didn't stick so and
when you started reading jordan pearson
because i mean i i
it is very hard just to read that one
that one chapter about lobsters
were you getting the feeling you know
when you first started this that that
some of his use of mythology that this
really was bringing back to you the
memory of the necronomicon
and aleister crowley and no yeah
yeah oh okay for me that might be a
first impression of him
the use he makes of history and
mythology and symbolism but go on yeah
i was walking around this neighborhood
listening to all these with a notebook
listening to him going on evening walks
and listening to his lectures and i kept
and then i i finally realized like hold
on mardik
stuff he was like
it cracks me up because you can also
tell he's someone who has done
absolutely zero research on martial
containment and middle eastern asian
was around the time challenges um that
was around the time that he
had just interviewed with kathy newman
from channel 4 news right
and all of his fans were saying yeah he
really stuck it to that woman you know
he told her what was what
and i and when i written and i realized
that people like kathy newman are
they're really suspicious like
something's wrong with this guy but they
can't quite figure out what what
and here i am sitting with a copy of the
necronomicon and looking at peterson's
maps of meaning thinking
that's plagiarized almost verbatim right
it's plagiarized
good god i'm dealing with an adult child
well okay okay
so let me push back in that uh just a
little bit though so when
when you say plagiarized i don't think
you use the word in the same way other
people
would i mean so i mean
when i look at so his book contains
numerous parallelisms and comparisons
sometimes with precise wording being
verbatim the same
and look it does establish what has
intellectually influenced
peterson there's no doubt about that but
you know this sounds like
a very immature slightly insane
daughtering elderly drug addict
incoherently regurgitating things that
he read in the necronomicon
and in aleister crowley but i mean
i think for many people they'd say oh
well this isn't really plagiarism
yeah okay it's wholesale
academic fraud so my background i have a
background in linguistics
so that i think that um uh specifically
social linguistics i think that that
helped
lend to being able to figure out that
this is more than
influence this is more than social
construction you know like when i write
like i before i wrote about peterson i
wrote other books
other people's styles influenced me but
i mentioned
you know like the way they kind of turn
a sentence or turn a phrase or something
but i would
i would say you know hear the people
that i like hit him
like i've kind of borrowed from their
register or something like that but it's
not
but i'm not sitting down with their book
open beside me and
copying out the sentence and then just
changing a couple of words
right that you know and that's what
peterson is doing in
it's it's bananas and he you know he
talks about how much he dislikes writing
right and um and how he how he just
hates it well
i i don't i think that in addition to
all of his other problems like
plagiarizing from the occult he can't
and he can't write
and you never hear anyone say not even
his fans
you know you know right oh okay
so i'm just going to show you though i'm
going to use the chapter about um
lobsters as an example uh there's
certainly
certainly many of jordan peterson's fans
or even most of them
will admit that the chapter on lobsters
is badly written so that's
one view of it is that it's badly
written and one explanation for why it's
badly written
would be that he's an idiot or he's
insane there are many many explanations
for bad writing there's no this doesn't
just lend itself to one
possible analysis no no wait another
analysis
of the lobster chapter is that it is
full of very carefully constructed
hidden meanings
now i would think so maybe i don't know
where you are in the spectrum maybe
you're in the middle
maybe because just given what you said
maybe you think it's a mix of bad
writing
carefully constructed uh uh you know
imagery
which you know frankly to some extent it
has an occult purpose
in the same way that aleister crowley's
writing has an occult purpose or the
necronomic with this kind of
pulp paperback uh satanism frankly
anyway so
where do you stand on the spectrum well
i i would agree that it has to do with
numerous factors
yeah he lacks talent to write he's of
course
guided by uh he's mentally insane so i
think that there are many lenses through
which we can view people
but first and foremost we ought to see
him as a a lunatic
i think and um so there's there's that
and
i agree with you there go on yeah yeah
it's a cultic and he's
um you know the idea of the lobster uh
almost certainly comes from the occult
uh the crab is uh aleister crowley wrote
about lobsters and crabs and
and the rising of the lobster and
whatever else and
and peterson has sort of imitated his
language on lobsters you wouldn't see
that in volume one that'll be in
volume two so so i've so i've documented
over well over 500 examples of
him plagiarizing aleister crowley so in
his new book beyond order
yeah he doesn't wait he doesn't
plagiarize adolf hitler so much that's
my main
claim that he's plagiarizing hitler
right uh he he's reverted to
um mostly to plagiarizing from al master
crowley i would say second
is that book you mentioned that the
necronomicon and then it's
hitler but it's much more covert than
usual the particular plagiarism is quite
apparent and 12 rules for life and also
maps of meaning and massive meaning is
filled with plagiarism as well
and i would say mostly from aleister
crowley but in order
in order it goes so again i'm just going
to challenge you
so i've already i've already admitted
that i share the analytical view that
he's fundamentally
um an insane person and you know
i just say though it is then very
difficult to pin down any
analysis any analysis of someone's
incoherencies or intentions
once we've admitted that we think that a
lot of this is insane that there is no
you know so this is written with no
clear purpose with no clear plan
rather than interpreting it as sort of
brilliantly and intentionally
manipulating the audience
he has a plan like he's still even
though he is i i believe so i argue in
the book that he has schizophrenia
yes he's been diagnosed with it i just
want to know for the audience so this is
not slander he he himself has admitted
and his daughter admitted that he has
been diagnosed as confronted
go on yeah yes eventually and then she
also denied it
so so a doctor diagnosed him with it and
then but i think
well she claimed that she disagrees
that's different from denying that so
she admits it happens
she just doesn't like the diagnosis
that's different
if if someone diagnoses me and says that
i'm diabetic but i disagree
that's different from denying that i was
ever diagnosed as having diabetes okay
let's keep it straight
both of them both father and daughter
have stated on the record that he has
been diagnosed as schizophrenic
uh by more than one medical professional
they got a second opinion and so on they
talked through that thing and we said
that this was just a digression you were
saying you do primarily see
him as as uh peterson there are a
million digression so that's that's
um so that's the i think that's the main
lens
that we that we ought to view him as is
he schizophrenic now when i call him a
limited i just want to be clear that i'm
not
um denigrating uh other people with
schizophrenia or
making just mental illness i just
dislike him so intently that
i'm making an exception so hashtag not
all schizophrenics
not all not all schizophrenics are as
bad as jordan this is true
so look uh i'm just gonna say you know i
can
uh normalize rather than abnormalize uh
peterson's
experience however so as i've already
alluded to it and many people in the
audience may not be old enough to
remember when this stuff was mainstream
i am you and i are about the same age
troy
um not to not to dox you but you and i
are about this image
i can remember a time when books like
the necronomicon
were mainstream on store shelves i can
remember when
that whole school of 1970s
jungian reinterpretation of mythology
was very mainstream
and it was powerfully linked to people
experimenting with
lsd and other minor hallucinogenic drugs
magic mushrooms
uh you know the kind of valorization of
the
ego death and the hallucinatory trip
we're feeling
something all of those those things were
quite mainstream
in white english speaking canada which
is where
you know george so just say as much as
we can kind of abnormalize him and treat
him as an outlier or an extraordinary
person
i think there are a lot of cranky old
men from his generation who were
influenced by many of the same
sources especially people with phds
people like kathy newman didn't
understand
you know something's wrong with you
meanwhile i'm looking at
the necronomicon going this guy's he's
plagiarized this book you know
he's like uh he took too many drugs and
he read too many books by the occult
that's a that's a very
uh from the occult from alastair crowley
that's a very good way
so so your analysis is like it's like uh
light years ahead of
i have some advantages over the average
they keep room like for example in
beyond order they kept referring to what
he wrote it as mythology
right he cites a book about the occult
and and talks about her medicism and the
the aleister crowley's religion was the
hermetic order of the golden dawn
influenced by her medicine which was a
strain of the occult
i mean it's right there in the text he
writes about the occult and maps of
meaning that
they never mentioned this and if you and
if you tell anyone this look why is he
writing about the occult in these
so-called health books and why
why does he say flattering things about
their culture explain what he learned
about the occult the response you'll get
is no he doesn't
right right yeah
it's right it's on page 17. i couldn't
no i don't want to see it i just know
that
let me quote your book this is from
within the first within the first 20
pages to quote the book quote why did
the doctor i.e why did
dr jordan peterson extol the reliability
of magic mushrooms
or label hallucinogens quote unquote
amazing
why did he insist that the sole way to
quit smoking was having a mystical
experience
induced by these same magic mushrooms
why did he publish a psychedelic
video promoting magic mushrooms
ayahuasca dmt and ecstasy
also known as mdma now again especially
given
the predominantly conservative
predominantly christian public
he is preaching to yeah that this is
hidden in plain sight yeah have you so
just given that you've read so much of
his work and you've also
seen all the videos though have you ever
seen him admitting
to using these drugs himself okay you
they're talking about mushrooms or
something like that and then the guy
asks him you know that kind of like a
stoner voice have you ever taken these
or something yeah
and the christianity i mean that his
interpretation of christ is not right
as for the bible uh someone should have
picked up
is he talking about like a like a
gnostic interpretation like a mystical
interpretation of christ
i mean i'm uh
i haven't even read the bible in full
but even i know that
that's not christ from that that's not
christ from the bible
right well yes i think too i mean he
reflects a tradition
that involves and includes aleister
crowley that involves and
includes a pre-nazi figure like arthur
schopenhauer
um that involves and includes nietzsche
who is in some ways derivative of
schopenhauer
of a very dangerous ambivalence towards
christianity and and christ
where you know there's this philosophy
of the will
you know and then how whether or not
that should
destroy christianity which you know even
if you read
hitler directly sometimes that's what
hitler is saying is that his movement is
anti-christian
or if it should in some sense embrace
the inner essence of christianity but
transcend or discard other elements you
know
the this yeah so i'd say he is um a kind
of consistent proponent of that view i
think he has a lot in common with
aleister crowley
and frankly a whole lot of me a whole
lot of mediocre minds who were inspired
by
carl young yeah yeah that's so
peterson is he most of his ideas are not
his own
yes most of his ideas are copied from
other people and one of his big ideas is
that
see what the thing that he likes one of
the things that he likes about crowley
is that
his ideas were very similar to he got
them from nietzsche
and they're very similar to that of
hitler the the post um
the post uh judeo
um judeo-christian world where you can
unleash your inner demon and we don't
have to live by the
stultifying laws that have been handed
down to us
through the bible and of course it's
this is all delusion anyway because
i don't think that we are so influenced
by um
the morals in the bible like i've been
reading the um
the old testament recently and i don't
see how
it's very more i don't see how it's very
moral and um i rejected
christianity when i was quite young i
think i think and even in israel
every even in israel very few people
actually live their lives according to
the old testament
there's there are tiny minority sects
within judaism that
actually live by the writ of the old
testament and and they do things like
sacrificing goats and sheep they
actually carry out those rituals and
they're regarded as
insane or eccentric but to us now that
looks satanic these blood rights of
you know they they sacrifice the animal
and daub the blood on each other's
foreheads and so on
that's in the bible you know but yeah
yeah yeah yeah
so you know there's another question
there the gap between what we think of
as christian culture
and actual christianity in the bible
which includes you know sex slavery
and uh genocide and all kinds of other
things that christians presume they're
against to presume their religion sorry
go on now i don't know if i into what
it's not interrupted either
this this side of jordan peterson though
um
what was so one of my few criticisms of
of your book and maybe in volume 2
you'll see different or maybe you'll
make a youtube video too
because i know youtube on like a book
you can do in bits and pieces at any
time
i don't like what you do with narcissism
and peterson
so for those in the audience don't know
there's narcissism as a cultural concept
and then there's the specific diagnosis
of npd
narcissistic personal disorder many of
the same
so many of the same shall we say manic
episodes
or examples of madness or at least
eccentricity in jordan peterson's
writing and his conduct on youtube and
so on
uh many of them can be
interpreted as indicating his fragility
rather than his egomania do you see what
i'm saying like rather than indicating
narcissism or npd
it can be a sense of dejected
worthlessness
that he's out here so i just want to
suggest that you very broadly
and ask if you've ever had that sense
that you know that there is a
more fragile uh jordan peterson that
emerged this in some ways that that
could be linked to carl jung's song
yeah well this is certainly a very
fragile peterson behind the
false persona right of the father strong
father figure he is a
child um and that's what a narcissist is
they're like
uh it's like arrested development and
actually
what he's been doing although i haven't
told anyone this so far and i i didn't
write about it in volume one is that
what he's actually doing is it's he's
giving a running confessional on how he
was traumatized
as a child if you listen carefully uh to
what he's saying he
he talks about his father and then he'll
talk about adolf hitler like he's
confused
too and he talks about schizophrenia and
living
living growing up under a domineering
parent and so on and i think that when
he was young he was
i think he was mentally ill when he was
young and i think that his father was
possibly also mentally ill and um and
that that runs in the family as he has
said and that
uh and that he was mistreated and and i
think that what
everything he's trying to do is to try
to prove his worth
to his biological father in some really
warped and twisted ways
and he has indeed he has indeed stated
that
quite literally as part of his
philosophy that the meaning of your
philosophy is to go and rescue your dead
father from hell
is to go into the mouth of a whale and
rescue
this issue of redeeming one's
relationship with one's father beyond
the grave is
both literally and symbolically part of
the flaws of georgia god
just just to include the audience if
they haven't wasted their time on this
stuff as much as i have
yeah when he talks about redeeming his
father this is going to sound
strange to your listeners if they
haven't read the book or if they're not
familiar with
what i'm talking about but it's he's
speaking in code he what he mean
you don't wake up every day and say
redeem the father you know like what
what do you mean by that but this is one
of the questions that no one ever asks
who's the father
why should we redeem it redeem him for
what critical questions don't exist in
the peterson sphere
and journalists certainly aren't helping
and um what he means is that uh
you have to redeem the the figure of the
fatherland adolf hitler
that that's what he means by that he and
um and he's he calls
god the father the the jovial father of
the race the
great father the also great father so
so when he says we need to rejuvenate
redeem or rejuvenate the father
this is like we need to rejuvenate the
right can he talks about rejuvenation of
the state we need to rejuvenate this
state
he's not political mind you but we need
to rejuvenate the state and hitler
talked about
the need to rejuvenate the reich and
said we will we national socialists will
rejuvenate the world
so this is this is crypto fascism right
a number of so a number of claims
there are a number of claims in this
book he's that he's plagiarizing hitler
he's plagiarizing chronic he's
plagiarizing others like people you've
mentioned nietzsche and young
and he's also a crypto fascist and he's
almost certainly schizophrenic
and yeah yes so no no i'm
happy could contribute as much as you
want the conversation
i was going to say on this issue of
self-loathing
a lot of unsophisticated people
interpret what he says about dominance
and dominance hierarchies and i think
this will inevitably bring us back to
questions about fascism and so on
they interpret this as him proclaiming
his own strength and his own dominance
but when i look at that whether it's
what he says in lectures or in the
actual chapter about lobsters
and dominance hierarchies and jordan
peterson's own book
what seems to me to be going on there is
he's expressing his own
self-loathing his own lack of
self-esteem
that he considers himself and his
daughter to be people and of course
completely completely scientifically
false when a motorcycle has no
scientific validity and it couldn't
possibly have scientifically
but you know he felt that he and his
daughter both were born born with
low serotonin levels and he
repeatedly and unscientifically
expresses that somehow the dominance
hierarchy is about who has the most
serotonin
which um crayfish or which lobster has
the most serotonin in its brain
and that that actually what he's saying
is that he feels that he and his
daughter and you make a very point
possibly his own father also perhaps
goes back another generation as well as
going forward another generation
that they were born to be at the bottom
of the dominance hierarchy that they are
the losers
that they are the ones as he says quite
openly teetering on the edge of
of suicide i mean he talks about just
waking up in the morning and he again he
attributes this
to various mysterious ailments that
don't exist
and his daughter also has this series of
mysterious ailments that do not really
exist
but his being miserable fragile
breaking down weeping in public for
ridiculous reasons all the time
you know the the the hyper fragile
jordan peterson and how
that fits into the idea of the dominance
harkey i i just say this
this madness is susceptible to more than
one analysis or interpretation
for sure everything is i um i would say
that i don't i think when he does the
water works it it's it's a show
i don't think that i don't think that
the um the crying is real
the self-loathing i think is probably um
uh a sign of possibly vulnerable
narcissism and he inflates his ego so
much too
to try to you know be the super kind of
like a superman or something like that
um yeah as for the as for the
the dominance hierarchy it is a
metaphorical or
aspirational zone and um and you're
supposed to
it is ten levels he has said and his
lobsters are supposed to attend
uh uh to uh ascend the ten levels and at
the top of the
at the top of the dominance hierarchy
there's the all-seeing eye of horus
which of course was the figurehead of
aleister crowley's religion
nobody ever points this out as being
strange
but when i say when i say
hello he's he's actually plagiarizing
aleister crowley people call me strange
look i'm not the one with a um a giant
cult
who's um the central paradigm is which
is an egyptian pyramid over which there
floats a magical eye
i don't tell people you need to be like
the eye be like the eye of hoarders of
course
pay attention pay attention to problems
that yes
what what is it that that's absolute
madness i mean if i had a professor who
started talking about the all-seeing eye
of horus in that way in class
i'd be straight out the door to the
registrar's office and asking for my
money back
lunatic in the classroom what the hell
is this you know like
it it it's just it's just that the whole
story is just so exciting well
i'd also just digress here in case any
of my listeners think that this
material is interesting to read um
nothing could be more boring
than the philosophy of alistar coley
like it's incredibly boring and
pointless
and i would say it's especially boring
and pointless if you are
a young man growing up in white english
speaking canada which is
what jordan peterson was trying to
change your own life for the better like
trying to use it as something like a
a self-help book now i could say to you
also i mean just to keep it on peterson
rather than crowley
this philosophy of being like the eye of
horus
how could you possibly apply this
what what do you what do you mean how
can you say this is self-improvement
well yes only now do i realize my
mistake was i wasn't being enough like
the eye of horus you know
grocery store but i forgot to bring my
shopping bags what would horace do
you read read all the ingredients on
every item you buy at the grocery store
be like the eye of horus this is not a i
mean there are slogans like look i'm not
a fan of self-help literature i'm really
not
but you can look at self-help books
written by people where they're giving
you some kind of advice you could apply
to your education or your finances or
something
you know i but yes jordan peterson's
advice
it has this kind of radical irrelevance
to modern life that again i see it in uh
i see in crowley and that that whole
tradition coming out of uh well
crowley crowley by the way he's born in
the same year as carl young
um you can't really they were more or
less simultaneous uh famous figures
yeah so anyway but yeah
on the level of having read newspaper
articles about him because crowley
currently managed to make himself
notorious and that's the only reason
anyone knows his books today
british press that's right do you see so
let me just ask you this before we get
into kind of the the adolf hitler side
of it expressly
um with this kind of material about the
snake
eating the snake with the eye of horus
and so on
do you think that the final point of his
philosophy is
that man himself should become god
which is a theory all the fascists
played with
they rarely committed to and and crowley
and nietzsche were interested in this
peterson's always yeah us and we need to
there's this idea that we should take
that
that notion under ourselves it's a hell
of an idea he says that we need to
become
divine ourselves i mean it's just an
idea i'm not espousing that idea i'm
just saying
there's this idea he just floats these
ideas and that's that's what he means
yeah so
that we need to become godlike so do you
think do you think he's really kind of
rolling that out slowly as the point of
his philosophy or do you think he is
just the world's most inarticulate
advocate for it because yes that i would
agree
if that's the point it's it's uh it's
baffling
uh rather than overt and direct yeah
yeah
and also people don't ask questions like
so and then he has said you know like
he endorses the the the superman who
says nice things about me
right and then in another video he said
that the nazis appropriated the idea of
a superman and
it's it's a concept they really pulled
off this is praise
he's commending them for pulling off
this idea of the superman and then
then later he talks about the you know
the idea of the ubermensch without the
nazi context but you're supposed to put
it together
oh yes over here he said that about the
superman in connection with the nazis
our own we ought to become and we could
become
god like we could become like an
ubermensch but people don't make these
elementary connections i don't really i
don't understand why not and
that may sound like simplistic thinking
like i'm just making a simple connection
that's not there
well no no no no so what the audience
does understand is
as as simplistic as it may sound for
troy
to make these comparisons you have to
understand the incredibly simplistic use
of historical facts and mythology that
are made
by followers of carl jung and jordan
peterson may be an extraordinary example
that in some ways
but in many ways he is a dismally
ordinary example
you know i just mentioned to you um
because you may not know it
no you know what i never had the
experience jordan peterson had
of coming home drunk one night and
sitting down with a pen and paper
and drawing a picture of jesus christ
wrapped in a giant snake and deciding
that i was going to take on
you know that kind of jungian symbolism
really never did it for me
christ was on the cross and the bird i
think it's horrors i think was pecking
the
eyes out of christ's head or something
like that and again it's to
signify the end of the the
you know stultifying jewish era the
epoch
yes where we can all become devils and
create the
new eon or third third reich and this is
this is the core belief of what peterson
thinks but
again journalists would never ever think
of that
who who could have such beliefs this is
why journalists are
like you see like um some pretty
intelligent people like steven sacher
from the bbc and and wendy messley from
the
the cbc they're getting really close
it's they can they know he's a fascist
they know something is wrong but
what is it that he's hiding and they
don't know and that's what it is it's
the track it all comes from those
trashy paper book that uh the occultic
paperbacks and
he said he says in 12 rules for life he
grew he hung out with the bad kids
now you're canadian i'm canadian think
about what the bad kids would be like
in fairview alberta they played dungeons
and dragons and they read the
necronomicon and they were into
hp lovecraft he probably later got into
carl
young or more erudite thing but probably
started with lovecraft and necronomicon
this kind of thing yeah
maybe space aliens yeah
yes yes yes right yeah and a bunch of
borderline criminals who were his
friends and so on and
his best friend who he compared to adolf
hitler he said that his best friend
chris
he calls him his real name is robert
dernan uh or richard durbin um
at harvard he talked about his friend he
didn't say his name he said he was just
like hitler but
he didn't have the opportunity to murder
people but if he'd had the chance he
would have you know like like hitler
did and so on and so he's that's his
best friend someone who's like adolf
hitler
right well that's that's how peterson
sees his best friend
i doubt that you or i would probably we
would both see this guy as a very
mediocre self-indulgent undergraduate
student
i'm just saying but but this is how pete
peterson clothes him in greatness
because peterson makes everyone into a
hero or a villain this way
yeah i would just say you know there's
there's the
question of establishing the particular
source material peterson is working from
which your book goes a long way towards
my opinion but there's also the kind of
overall
methodology of his
and you know i'll just give you an
example this may interest you in its
particulars but
my point is here more more general with
how these people think and when i say
these people i mean
a certain generation who grew up with
psychedelic drugs and the
philosophy of carl young and a few other
of these accessible readily accessible
sources you know um aleister crowley
was personal friends with ananda mehta
so i i am assuming you didn't so i'm
giving you i'm giving you an interesting
wrinkle
ananda mezza was a white englishman
who at that time flew i stay flew he
probably took a boat now they think
about it
anyway he one way or another he
transported himself to southeast asia
and became one of the first white men
to ever become a theravada buddhist monk
he ordained and he became a very
activist vocal leader who published
books so he didn't just become a monk
and go and live in a cave
he presented a view that in the future
europe should itself
become buddhist should convert to
buddhism but before that
he was a member of the order of the
golden dawn and was close personal
friends
yeah yeah and he was he was perceived as
the most
talented or charismatic of the younger
members i think he was more favored
than than crowley and he went on to be a
charismatic and successful
uh buddhism interesting footnote here
about how reality worked
why did he go to southeast asia in the
first place and then get tempted to
leave behind occultism
for for buddhism uh it was his health
he uh he had respiratory problems and as
many people said there were no cures for
this problem he went out to live in the
tropics
and once he was there more than the
climate influenced him but this is my
point here's what you know here's what
happened
the philosophy of thalema so thalema and
thalemism
is the quote-unquote philosophy of
elsewhere
it's my preferred pronunciation yes
so thilima can also be found on the
internet but yes uh but
philema rhymes with dilemma anyway
what he did was he directly took
buddhism as interpreted by his personal
friend because
he didn't actually do any research none
of these people actually researched
ancient egypt none of them researched
greece or rome you know what i mean this
is this
incredibly facile um you know
it would be like someone looking at
google image search today
while high on mushrooms and lsd like
that's the level of research these guys
did
but you know what else to crowley did
was he took uh the idea of
buddhist philosophy from this monk who
spoke english and endometria
and he basically deleted all of the
stuff about
selflessness and replaced it with
selfishness
that's the kind of intervention he plays
instead of yeah instead of having no
soul and no self
it's about you this man becomes god you
are
the higher self you are the superman
you take world religions and you twist
and warp their
you you take the the even the good parts
of all those religions because they all
do have some morality in them somewhere
it's it's really the opposite of
anthropology
like with anthropology you look at a
myth whether it's indigenous people of
canada like the creed the ojibwe the
inuit
or you look at people in india or china
you look at it and you say
what did it mean to these people in this
historical context in this culture
what's the authentic real meaning in
these people in their lives right
and very often like as with the um
misinterpretation of the dow to jing
it's historical significance and the
meaning of that text in chinese
culture is totally different from what
what europeans did with it why europeans
totally reinvented this text
yeah yeah that's why i'm mentioning it
aleister crowley himself as an example
oh and aleister crowley you know his
knowledge of uh
his knowledge of classical chinese i
mean
you know he couldn't read chinese any
more than he could read ancient egyptian
i mean he couldn't read egyptian there's
no no actually
i just say but what peterson is doing it
is the same as crowley and it's the same
as carl jung which is that he's just
willing to in this hallucinatory state
just quote oh yeah the eye of horus and
you know
anything from any culture oh and marduk
and tim
and it all means whatever he wants it to
mean
and he will say yeah peterson does this
constantly this is what jordan peterson
is doing he'll just pick and choose
and he will insist to you that i think
it is ultimately through his own
drug-induced experience he'll insist you
that what he is saying in the 21st
century about marduk about horus or
about jesus christ or about the buddha
that it's it's the truth that that has
been true
since before human beings had writing
it's not just something he made up of
wow look i know do you want do you want
to come into that but that's in terms of
the methodology
of jordan peterson that's what i see and
i see him treating adolf hitler
the same way he's willing to loosely
reinterpret and appropriate
ancient gods texts written in languages
you can't understand so on and so forth
well it's
funny that you mentioned hitler in
association with those ancient gods
because
yeah i i take your point that peterson
is doing
what was so popular in the 70s and so on
it's just a recycling of that there's
always the kind of market for
people who and and i agree that with you
that people can
take whatever interpretation they want
away from it because it doesn't really
mean much but you know be like horus pay
attention like horse what does that mean
but the thing is is that peterson
actually has very specific meanings
that i unpack in the right the book and
those those gods
actually stand for real people
historical figures they're
they're uh standings for they
symbolize actual people for example
marduk
marticus is standing for hitler as
strange as that sound
so i have not finished the book just
full disclosure the audience
no no but great okay i'll be interested
to see that when you get to it and it's
easy to figure it out because
when he talks about marduk he he lists
uh he uses a number of adjectives and
speaks in a certain way he's the
god of speech he could see everything
going on and whatever he
he and then when he talks about hitler
he always talks about how he was such a
great speaker and
he was he had such good vision and all
this stuff and
he uses that you know you can just make
a list of the here's how he describes
marduk here how he describes hitler
obviously mark is a stand-in mark's at
the top of the dominance hierarchy he
has said hitler is at the top of the
dominance hierarchy all right
so i just pushed you this way there's a
question
it is very clear that jordan peterson
has no sincere interest in the real
history of communism
it's very clear that he has no sincere
no sincere interest in the history of
fascism sorry i'll just finish because
i'm just doing these things before
it's clear that he has no sincere
interest in the history of communism no
sincere interest in history of fascism
he obviously has no sincere interest in
the history of
ancient near eastern religions you know
it's not you know
neither egypt nor um ancient samarkand
or anywhere else i mean he's he's no
sincere research
but i'm putting what is his sincere
interest i mean
you can take that in any direction you
want but given that he's put in this
work to gather together this strange
bird's nest of
seemingly random you know mythological
references
and frankly gross distortions of 20th
century history
what do you think his interest is
so you you all right so you really think
he's he okay so you really think he is
actually a classical
anti-semitic neo-nazi okay and
he's an occultist but to me those
one doesn't prove the other i mean that
to me sorry i'm not i'm not saying again
i haven't finished your reading your
book i'll be interested to see if you
prove the case but to me it seems the
more we admit that he's insane
the more we admit that he's a drug drug
addict and doesn't know what he's doing
then the harder it is to prove that he
has an objective like that like he's
actually trying to revive
something like that he has multiple
objectives
basically he's on a mission to harm so
so
and he can do that in very subtle ways
by just filling up
people's minds with nonsense like
wasting students time i mean imagine you
think about it euro imagine a female
student from saudi arabia comes to
canada to study
psychology maybe she can go back to
saudi arabia get a master's go back to
saudi arabia and work
for the government and uh as a psych as
a social worker and maybe a psychologist
like
in a country that would probably really
need it you know this could be good for
her family and good for society and what
is she learning
about marduk and and the ayathura so so
that's a kind of harm like harming
people young people's education so
that's one
goal and it goes all the way up to
nazism and even
even beyond lying to people and
manipulating people that he's
absolutely hypocritical he is insidious
and um
all of his goals he has many he has many
of them and they're all malevolent
as is he but he's he is first and
foremost to his core a nazi an
actual nazi and people don't think that
such people exists
if you add what's the takeaway message
from the third rock of world war ii it
seems to be that there are no nazis what
are you talking about
so i just mentioned you know um i am not
naive in this way
i'm a former political science major i
have spoken to
and on on youtube i've crossed swords
with people who are nazis and neo-nazis
today
and all my life i've had to deal with
communists it's much easier to find an
overt communist
than an overt nazi at present i think
communism is going through a
revival of of public popularity in 2021
um so i am not naive that way however
you know i i can challenge you as
follows
has has jordan peterson ever been a
member
of a neo-nazi organization i don't know
but he but his
his movement is a neo-nazi organization
it's just
clandestine so the jordan peterson
phenomenon
as dubbed by the the media is a
clandestine neo-nazi
organization many and many of his
followers are too dim to realize it and
so
and so are the journalists and all the
other power holders
i'll give you i'll give you a contrast
all of the things that he said
how many nice things can you say about
adolf hitler
right before people start to maybe think
you know something
maybe maybe he likes adolf hitler i mean
this is like 40 pages of him going on
about how wonderful hitler was
you ever get the idea that maybe he
thinks oh i get it but the counter
argument is that he's just insane
so there's an interesting contrast the
possibility of which is presented by
your book and by your youtube videos
uh to faith goldie so many people don't
know the name faith goldie
she's not that famous if you search my
youtube channel
there is a video i made that is called
faith goldie
colon canadian hitler
so you know so just just to say a little
bit guys before we get to the faithful
so faith goldie
is a kind of white supremacist
neo-nazi leader however
uh faith goldie conceals precisely what
jordan peterson reveals and i would say
you know vice versa
you know faith goldie would never come
out and say the positive things about
hitler
that jordan peterson says her whole act
is to try to present herself
as an acceptable mainstream politician
like when she's running for mayor so
again
it's not that i disagree i do think
faith goalie is somewhere on the
spectrum
of white supremacist or neo-nazi what
you could get into the precise
differences between her and a neo-nazi
in the strictest definition of the term
or something you know but
faith goldie does not say any of the
things jordan peterson says
and to my mind you know again what
george jordan peterson is saying and
doing is very different from example
so you reply that any way you want to
but including you are interested in the
connection between those two precise
people
they are they are connected historical
figures go on yes no and
and you know that isa because you know
about faith because you're canadian and
that's that's another
aspect of this story is that peterson
often mentions canadian neo-nazis but
non-canadians wouldn't know who they are
these are really obscure names ernst
zandol and saint goldie
in right people can canada
is like canadian mass murderers too he
mentions he
mentions canadians who've committed
atrocities and mass murders and things
yeah there's weird canadian cultural
references yeah
but he does have things so for example
faith goldie was outed as a neo-nazi
after she spoke to other neo-nazis
american new nancy's who worked for the
daily stormer and the 2017 united
rally and and what she did and this is
what the media plays let me just say the
audience
it was never hard to figure out what
faith called except it was
it didn't take that much research or
imagination but anyway go on yes
what she did was the conversation she
had was was leaked to the press and then
that was it she was outed as a new next
she was kicked off of facebook in canada
canadian non-conservative politicians in
canada applauded her being kicked off
and she's pretty much been banished and
then peterson had to
you know she was supposed to appear with
peterson but then she didn't and
well you know it was a very tough
decision and um you know it's not that
she's a bad person she's just too hot a
commodity right
that's what peterson said too hot a
commodity she just
she just parlayed with other neo-nazis
in a minecamp code
in
just to mention that she physically went
to and participated in the united
way yeah and what people didn't get was
that what
people listened to the recording and
realized oh my god that's horrible but
what they didn't
what no one realized what she was doing
was when she was talking to the
neo-nazis from the states
they were they were paraphrasing and
quoting mind conf to each other yes
that's that's the that's the in that's
the code that's crypto fascism talk
about a yearning and so on the
the for a future civilization for a a
place where their grandchildren can grow
up and so on and
everyone needs to wake up and this the
merit has become like the new berlin or
the new vienna or something which is
you know well and she she says something
like there's so many degenerate and
you know low class and vermin like
people here or something or something to
that effect
it's it's straight it's straight out of
my heart right and
so the media the media got the the gist
of it the tone
but they failed to realize that this is
actually
oral pla they they ordered so this is a
i mentioned you sorry
this this may or may not be interesting
to the audience but as an example of
that
again directly involving faith goldie
there is a video
faith goldie made with lauren southern
and it's just the two of
two of them sitting and talking on the
floor faith goldie with with lauren
southern
so now today i doubt you can find it on
youtube i know you can find it but it
was
on lauren southern's own youtube channel
like i would assume stick now
but in that there's a passage where if
lauren southern asks some incredibly
vague question like what are you
planning to do next
like with your careers what are you
planning to do on youtube whatever and
and faith goldie gives this very
carefully worded
very slow and meticulous statement about
finding the secret connections between
things
and if you know something about what's
going on in the alt-right it is a
it is a perfect textbook example of dog
whistling or speaking in code
and what's also interesting is they're
both on camera when it's filmed
and the other woman the blonde woman
friend
she breaks up laughing she responds in
this very peculiar woman there's nothing
funny about what uh faith goldie is
saying lauren southern is cracking up
and she has this very strange sort of
uh expression in her face and uh
you can tell she knows what's going on
and she's maybe
she's maybe astonished that faith is
being this provocative or this
forward so yeah there is a kind of game
that goes on the internet that way and
there are there are cases where you can
catch you right-handed
the the problem with peterson is he's
such a lunatic
the counter argument is lunacy the
counter-argument you say well yeah
yeah to use a cliche so uh he is
he is mad but he's also speaking in a
crypto-fascistic code
and um i've deciphered that code of the
child's play too
to understand it it would have to be
simple to understand
um because he's reaching out to
simple-minded people it's obvious
just just how sophisticated an analysis
of marduk can you
offer without losing
he went higher and higher
speaker he organized his people in the
state he
right i would like i would like to
interview you again when i finish the
book and maybe that'll coincide with
when you publish your volume two because
it's he's gonna do a second book
but let me let me ask you this to wrap
up this interview because an hour is a
nice round
what is your interpretation of the
crustacean mythology the lobster and
and crayfish so that chapter or that
aspect of what jordan peterson what is
troy parfet's view of it well
the whole lobster thing is um it's
quackery it's like that we are
biological
you know our biological imperative we're
just running we're just run by serentone
and he's comparing
basically sea insects to human beings so
he's positioning his
his listeners as basically bugs and they
they take up that role yeah i'm a bug
you know you want to be the biggest bug
in the bottom of the sea boy
it's all about biology like the the the
biological imperative role run by
chemicals and so on this was a
who else talked about the biological
imperative and so on and
um and oh it's it's a straight blend of
uh
nazi um eugenic speak and
warped darwinism and it's also combined
with occultism as i said earlier because
i think that the idea of the lobster in
part
comes from aleister crowley's use of the
lobster the lobster appears in the
occult so
if with peterson if it has to do with
nazism he loves it
if it has to do with occultism and
nazism he loves it even more
that's that's the connection so almost
everyone peterson mentions in his books
look them up he's not talking about them
okay i agree with that but i want to
stay on top of here
what what do you think in jordan
peterson's mind
is the point of that chapter like what
so in the same way i could ask look
what like if i were talking to jordan
peterson i could say what do you expect
people to do with this advice to be like
the eye of horus
what do you expect people to do with
this elaborate mythology
about uh lobsters and
crayfish you know so what do you think
what do you think he expects what is the
point from jordan petersburg i can
i can sit here and agree with you it's
pointless but you know he's he's running
with some attention
for people he doesn't know anything
about it
but what i completely agree you know
there's nothing but what is the point
for those people then what is the point
of the myth what is the
it's a metaphor but metaphor for what
for what
they've got a lot of those a lot of
this is going to sound really really
strange this is a very strange story but
a lot of the text about lobsters
mentions opponents lobsters battling
opponents
he plagiarizes that from hitler so but
of course
no one would ever understand this and
this is where it all kind of breaks down
it gets really really strange
he's trying to communicate this really
really warped
uh ideology this skits through this kind
of schizoid loose association
language that has to do with nazis and
the occult yet his followers can barely
spell
i mean they're not they can't even
figure out basic
information let alone a code
you know like and so this is where it
all breaks down he keeps telling them
that they're like lobsters don't you get
it you have a biological imperative
ascend the dominance hierarchy who's at
the top of the
thomas harvey i told you in another
lecture hitler in other words be like
hitler but they don't get it because
they're thick
so um you know so the whole thing
doesn't really make sense we have a
lunatic
who's speaking to an audience in a
fascistic crypto fascist code
and the audience is dim and they don't
understand
and not only that but but intelligent
people don't understand
uh other comments you know like as i've
said like
it talks about mythology a lot biology
but i don't they don't ask themselves
critical questions
who are the lobsters who do the lobsters
represent why does he keep talking about
the lobsters
um who's marduk why should we be like be
like horus what you know
does this god represent somebody what's
peterson's aim like even when he's going
banging on about like ordering chaos
you don't wake up every morning and fist
pump about you need to have order
we you know that's water you know we
need to eliminate chaos
what do you mean by order what do you
mean by chaos
are you talking about people and he is
there's a there's an orderly group of
people
there's a chaotic group of people we
need to eradicate chaos we need to
eradicate
this disorderly group of people who in
this case is non-whites
there's so there's such a lack of basic
critical thinking in the story of
baker's belief i don't understand how
what i have discovered is not um
unbelievable what's unbelievable is no
one else has put together
the story but in any of it i do
appreciate your questions well good
look i'll i will leave it up to the
audience i'm going to provide a link
both to his youtube channel and to the
book in the description
so as you can get the book and read it
now i felt like this book was
written five minutes ago i thought you'd
written this book
after jordan peterson's newest book came
out because i do think it is very much
relevant to what's going on there and
you know obviously his youtube channel
is something he updates
periodically it looks he was putting up
one video once every couple of months
so unlike the book that doesn't just sit
there in a in a static
form you know my concern is
that what you're doing is interpreting
madness and no matter how
finely or precisely you're like you know
like if it's just
you know what i mean you can't
really come to any meaningful conclusion
with the interpretation
of
mind of a uh it's a scary place
and i've gone quite far into looking
into the dark corners of that person's
mind
yeah it's a frightening place well look
i'll ask you this because okay go on
yeah well i was gonna say mistake people
think you know
oh he's described people can't
differentiate between someone who's
describing a madman
they think that you know they think that
i'm the madman you know like
right sure i'm trying to explain to you
what he's doing but you please listen to
what i'm saying but they just think that
oh that what you're saying sounds crazy
to which i think of yes it does sound
crazy because he's out of his mind
well so troy the audience doesn't know
this about you
troy also has a background in chinese
studies or sinology in the history
language and politics of china
yes and so do i we have this in common
we have a number we have a number of
things in common um uh which one of us
speaks better chinese remains to be seen
we can have a duel we can start both
doing chinese language education videos
on youtube and see who makes less money
i know but i i know but about 10 years
ago that seemed to be the main thing uh
going on your life
but you know another example of someone
who's considered a madman
is mao zedong now i am anti-communist
you can even see from the flag i have in
the background i am i am morally opposed
to maoism
and uh chinese communism and i don't
express against mass murder i have
something
but no everything i'm against the
economics i'm against the philosophy of
social
even when you take the mass murder out
of it i'm a very harsh critic of of
maoism and maoist communism however um
you know what i found about mao
was the more you knew about his
particular cultural background
his like the the books he read and the
books that were popular in the debates
that were going on
between the age of 15 and 25 for him
the less he seemed insane and the more
he seemed like a really
mediocre person whose ideas were
derivative of this other stuff which was
it which maybe itself is insane
you know what i mean no i just say
likewise i think your your your volume
one is susceptible to this and maybe
volume two
you'll go into it or something but you
know okay there is this sense that
jordan peterson is crazy
but there's also a sense in which he's
just a kind of mediocre
who is reflecting you know what was in
the 1980s
and in some ways it's really a kind of
echo of the 1960s like the real heyday
of lsd-infused
reinterpretation of eastern mythology
was maybe the 1960s
but there's this sort of you know second
wave of it in the 1980s
that he's this mediocre mind who read
these particular books
and frankly did these particular drugs
and he's just giving you this
this kind of this kind of rehash of
sources that are you know insane to
begin with
he pretends not to like it he called
when he talks about communists he does
so as a rhetorical stratagem to
link people like me liberals to
communists you know the liberals of the
communists
but he secretly loves communism and like
20th century marxism leninism because it
was evil
and all evil is good yeah evil uh evil
be
the uh be thou my good it says in mine
it says in uh
milton's paradise lost peterson quotes
that
uh takes that line and quotes it he will
be that my good and um aleister crowley
quoted the same line
funny thing eh and um so i mean he he
lives in a cocoon
of um uh of pictures i mean next to his
desk there's a picture there's a soviet
propaganda portrait of five people about
to be executed
who would put that in their house yeah
i mean i think the the counter argument
is just to point out that
in all of peterson's writing correct me
if i'm wrong and in all of peterson's
lectures i think he never gives a view
of a better
society he's trying to accomplish or a
better political order
whenever he's questioned about that he
will immediately retreat to saying the
point of his philosophy is to clean up
your room
it's for you individually to be more
morally upright
yeah he's not political he's
psychological yeah of course
this is again just part of the it's just
another lie
you know and any many you mentioned
about it's a very different strategy
from lauren southern
or you know the other kind of you know
crypto fascists of our time i mean i
just say it's it's certainly
strategically it's very different
yeah he's more clever than they are i
mean lauren is
not an intelligent person and neither is
faith called lauren southern was
i incidentally banned peterson's power
lauren southern was instantly
forbidden from entering the united
kingdom under a terrorist act
which gives you a maybe a better sense
of some of the people that he um
consorts with you know that he also uh
peterson is uh are you familiar
as a canadian are you familiar with
sunderland of course yes
and no one in the audience will be but
he's basically canada's most
notorious uh nazi sympathizer and
holocaust denier what have you yeah and
peterson defended him
in norway and said that the canadian
government was wrong to
prosecute him and that the audience
ought to be careful because one day the
the the the government might prosecute
them uh zundel was
given two years in canada for being a
threat to national security and then he
was deported to
his native germany where he was given
five years for inside a racial hatred
against the jews
peterson's defending this guy he was all
and he also like peterson identified as
a
champion of free speech and like
peterson he was out of his mind
but he can talk about ernst in public
and people don't know who that is
well let me say this though you know
there was a long period
when jordan peterson's drug addiction
was secret
and i made videos talking about it and
uh let's see this look
i'm i'm an older gentleman i have a lot
of real world experience
if you know someone who goes to the type
of dramatic weight loss
jordan peterson goes through while
having the dramatic change in his
personality
that jordan pearson went through um
there are very few explanations other
than drug addiction
you know like looking at him before the
drug addiction element went public it
was like well
either this is drug addiction or this is
insanity of an extreme and very unstable
kind it's very rare to have the
combination of
physical and emotional and intellectual
symptoms yeah without
drug addiction but but this is what i
want to put you is before the drug
addiction went
public people were talking about the
possibility that he would be elected the
next prime minister of canada
and i think that was a very real
possibility now currently his star is at
a much lower ebb i think because of the
drug addiction but i can put that to you
that
unlike faith goldy so of course he could
be elected
uh mayor of toronto easily he could be
elected premier of ontario
and again if if the drugs hadn't
interrupted his uh
meteoric rise no i mean it seems to me
it seems to me that real political power
is very much within his grasp
one day we are going to put someone in
charge who is this
absolutely insane as jordan peterson has
so much trouble that we're not going to
i mean it almost happened in the ux
we were lucky to survive trump and he
might not even be gone but
he is so nuts and um
uh no he was planning on running for
prime minister
um or uh at least for
some uh some seat or something for the
conservative party as mentioned by
bernard schiff his former friend and
associate who wrote a
column in the toronto star saying jordan
p you know jordan peterson used to be
i used to endorse him or something but
now i believe he's dangerous
um and then peterson uh denied
saying that oh no i'm not have no
interest in politics but then of course
this is just another one of his lies and
then his friends said that he
talked about running for the
conservative party well i say too like
this is not a defense of jordan peterson
i have known men of his generation
who lie the same way all the time it's
totally morally reprehensible but that
style
where it's it's a little bit of
dishonesty all the time
and you can tell that underneath it it's
not just that he speaks that way
that he really thinks that way i'll give
a shout-out to another book
um you may or may not know this this is
blitzed by norman oller
okay so i think the quality of writing
is very poor i think if you can read
german get the german because the
quality of english is really poor
but this is an important book as you can
see i have made my own youtube video
talking about the role of the occult
in nazism so since you strictu nazism in
germany at that time i don't mean
neo-nazism today although they're
certainly linked and they're both
discussed in the video
but you know um anyone who starts to
look into the occult
elements of nazism in germany will
immediately say oh but this is so
irrational this is so preposterous this
is so crazy
even just to give a brief example the
stuff they say about
india the stuff they say about egypt
what do you anyone with a high school
issue what do you mean at that time the
british empire exists in india people
know
the reality of like you know this isn't
true at all what you're saying about
india
you know so i just say various aspects
of the mythology are
self-evidently preposterous and crazy in
this historical period
but a crucial part of the story that
this book draws attention to is drug
addiction
that people already were drug addicts in
uh
you know nazi era germany world war ii
germany
that actually what we often talk about
as mass hysteria or mass hypnosis
mass drug addiction mass drug dependency
was uh was a huge part of that
yes i mentioned that book in the in
volume two and i've spoken to the um
the author about really about my book
yeah uh but
um yeah drugs are yes
again the uh isn't isn't it funny
peterson's hero adolf hitler was a drug
addict his
doctor theodore morel you know kept him
happy with uppers and downers and speed
balls and whatever else
but on a mass scale the nazis and nancy
soldiers were being given
methamphetamine go on yes that's right
exactly if not not just hitler and if
you um
if you look in hitler's table talk which
is the book that peterson
often recommends it says that he has
read repeatedly and
calls it amazing i think one of the
reasons why it's so amazing is because
those
red it's filled with western populated
speech
and he's what you're looking at is
maybe schizophrenia meets um or
borderline schizophrenia meets um
speed balls yeah and
i think that's hitler's hitler's
long-term drug use and sleep deprivation
catching up with him and he was he was
pretty crazy to begin with but
as time went on you know that worked
boring stories about people he used to
know while
all around him there are death camps
europe is dotted with yes
it's so incredible that people would be
serving him and
listening to him and yes my fear are so
interesting and that's why peterson
loves it it's so complete you know it's
amazing what hitler did it's a
a huge trick foisted on everyone and
peterson is voicing his own trick
his own joke on his own hoax on everyone
they think that he's a self-help coach
they didn't understand that he's a
neo-nazi well i would go so far as to
say that he has a kind of fantasy
that he can be the alistair crowley of
this generation and in a limited
sense that he can be the adolf hitler of
this generation um yeah
you might say that his fantasy is that
he could be what
what aleister crowley thought adolf
hitler was for this church
is very you know specific kind of view
or delusion of hillary
let me conclude the interview by asking
you if you look ahead to the next five
years
where where do you think this will go
next and i admit i mean with with jordan
peterson
you know i mean i i i think most of us
were surprised he even had one more book
in him you know maybe this it's got
nowhere left to go
but yeah what would your prediction be
for for his project
what he'll try to accomplish what he's
going to do in the next five years
well futuroology is a full scheme i
would say but um
i i would think that millions of people
will suddenly read my book and realize
that he's a nancy i can go to prison for
violating
i'm sure the process will start getting
next week
i don't know like you know his beyond
order
is a lot of it is recycling like
he he says he uses the same phrases so
like as i said what he talked about
like he's plagiarizing him here here
here and just and then
but he did that he used the same bit of
plagiarism in 12 rules for life it's
like he's on a repeat
he's spinning his wheels or something i
don't know how many more books can he
write about my cult and
and nazism better covertly and dress
them up as self-help books i'm not sure
i don't know i have no idea what will
happen so um i don't know i actually
thought that he mightn't recover from
the last his um drug-induced coma and
all that stuff but um he seems to be
if um to be quite recovered so i don't
have no idea what's going on
well i just say this we did have a
personality on youtube for many years
named stefan molyneux
now he how quickly these people are
forgotten he's now been deleted
from youtube he was an example of
someone who
very intentionally advanced a white
supremacist
and specifically anti-black doctrine
now i'm mentioning that because some
some neo-nazis are obsessed with jews
and some are obsessed with this
but this was specifically about white
versus black
in the american and canadian context and
he advanced that
for years covertly it was like minimum a
five-year
process of of claiming to be a
libertarian and claiming to want equal
rights for everybody
and then kind of taking half a step and
half a step and half a step and letting
the audience in on what his real purpose
is
and yeah i have actually made some
youtube videos talking about kanye
a men's health coach or something i'm
helping men and then he would
he would try to get men off of women you
know like you can't get away from those
women you know they're
they're bad and peter does peterson does
something similar
and um because of course if you're a
heterosexual man and you
have a girlfriend to get married you're
going to be domesticated you're going to
throw away those cells to
crawl with books aren't you and you're
going to but i just say
with molineux so monu is
evil and bad and wrong but he's not
crazy in the way that jordan peterson
was
he had the self-discipline and sense of
purpose
and so on he really intentionally
pursued that goal and now someone who
was paying attention could have said at
one point if you ask where is this going
in the next five years
it's like oh well eventually he's gonna
kind of show his hand he's going to
reveal that this is really what it's
about
is this kind of white versus black you
know and for him it's specifically about
differences in levels of iq and uh
different which
talking about the is jews and so on
right and
which are the jews that settled in the
middle and just settled in
northern france and western or eastern
germany
you know so why is he talking about this
it's all uh
it's all a game you know why is it
talking about race and i think
well my point is with molineux that's
intentional that's cerebral
that's more interesting with jordan
peterson i feel like i'm just looking at
an elderly drug addict
you know coming apart in front of my
eyes
i think that he has moments of clarity i
think he suffers from psychosis
and i think that it's at times it's kind
of
i've looked at him and thought is he
having a psychotic episode now or is he
on something or what
but he's also disciplined in a kind of
frightening way
uh i would say uh sometimes he's um not
sometimes he's impulsive
and and that's actually one of the
things you know you meant you said that
you weren't uh
impressed by my narcissist yeah i would
say it's one of the weaker elements
going on
and um you may have a point in that i
think that narcissists are often very
impulsive and peterson doesn't seem to
be
impossible he's quick he can be quite in
control but i would say that he's also
completely dedicated to a project that
almost no one understands you know and
sometimes
you know and um and that's the strange
thing that
i wish that people would um try to try
to understand what he's doing it's
actually
quite easy to figure out once you once
you start to unravel it
oh that's what he's doing you know this
is what he means when he talks about
ordering chaos this is what he's doing
it's all very understandable okay the
secrets of marduk
so look as i said be delighted to have
another interview with you when i've
read more of the book maybe one year
volume 2 is coming out
there are links in the description both
to troy's youtube channel
and to his book on amazon which is it's
very affordably priced you can get it
and read it on kindle for
a song and you know i would say also to
people in the audience if you disagree
with troy's interpretation come up with
a better one
you know because i think you know the
raw materials
of your analysis are undeniable it is
undeniable
that i mean sorry let's let's just let's
just again i really think the drugs
matter here all right
jordan peterson is someone who
recommends cocaine positively he speaks
how is it possible well okay perfect
parallel
he is someone who right up until the
moment it destroyed his life and he
almost died in hospital
recommended antidepressants passionately
passionate defender of antidepressants
passionate defender of the
all the drugs he took himself uh you
know
biopsychiatry drugs and still this day
he has this completely incoherent
attitude towards this he's someone you
could look at and say well drugs have
destroyed your life
and yet he speaks about them positive
this way um
you know at the university of toronto
yes
right promoted cocaine two students and
said you know it's a
it's amazing you know that you don't do
it it's not strange or something or
right don't do it all the time you
should be nose deep in that stuff
non-stop right and although you could
excu
you could explain this away you
shouldn't he's he's suggesting to his
students to
to take cocaine at canada's foremost
institute
my point is you know my point is not to
insinuate that he's actually a drug
dealer or something my point is that he
is foolish enough you know that despite
having a phd in exactly that field you
know
if anyone should know the dangers of
antidepressants
it should be jordan peterson i'm sure if
anyone should know the dangers of
benzodiazepines
so this is another class of drugs but
they're frankly they're prescribed in
the same way as antidepressants oh
there's something wrong with you oh
forgive an example benzodiazepine use
you experience fear while on airplanes
fear and anxiety or benzodiazepines
so it's handed out this way
benzodiazepines are currently the most
prescribed drug in the united states of
america
especially elderly people are giving
them huge numbers and they have terrible
consequences
but the point is not that i should know
better the point is not that you should
know better troy
this is precisely his field if anyone
should know the dangers of cocaine
addiction
the dangers of benzodiazepines the
dangers of anti-depressants
and he knows none of it you know so
that's you know to take drugs and he
wants them to ruin their lives this is
what i said he has multiple aims if he
can keep promoting drug use and so on
it'll make it easier for him to
brainwash them and they
in the chance of them doing something
terrible
ruining their lives is higher and then
he wins anything
this is the this is the narcissist this
is the narcissist
on a mission you know of revenge to
to for the trauma that they suffered for
the hurt and pain that they've
experienced whatever that may be in his
life you know
he is insidious he is evil itself so
so to quote your own book troy's
assertion here troy's assertion here
is that this is evil for the sake of
evil
a concept that jordan peterson has been
fascinated with his whole life and that
he quotes again and again from everyone
whether it is aleister crowley or hitler
yeah so that that's the bottom line for
you is that it's
it's not that he's doing something
that's incidentally harmful
on his way to what he thinks of as a as
a positive goal the harm
is the purpose of jordan peterson okay
guys so
i gave you guys the links in the
description i think you have a sense of
just how stimulating
as a cross-examination of the philosophy
of jordan peterson this is
thank you very much for your time troy
and i hope to speak to you again